About The Author
1
About The Author
Part 1 The Boy, The Ball, & The Butcher
When I was in 2nd or 3rd grade, I tried to write a book about a homeless boy running through the streets of Spain with a soccer ball at his feet.
The boy would steal food and other necessities as needed, picking and pocketing goodies as he forged a path through the rush hour marketplace. He was so quick with a ball at his feet that he managed to outrun — err, out dribble...hmm, "outpace" all the shop owners that ever chased him. He kept the ball at his feet even as it bounced off the concrete slabs and stone streets, up and around the street merchandise as if a string tethered the ball to his foot, like an invisible yo-yo string tied to the hand. It was, by all possible accounts, pure magic.
One day a butcher chased after him, which was odd because the butcher had never bat an eye before that.
The butcher who caught him said, "I know you have stolen from me for years. I have never chased you until now. Do you know why?" The boy replied, "Because I have stolen enough and you are fed up? You want to send me to jail, huh?" After a long pause, the butcher took his apron off, knelt down, and said, "Not exactly. My brother is the coach of AC Milan. I should take you there. I only chased you today because I was worried you would get too fast for me to tell you that."
This was my first experience with creativity and the power of words. I remember this vividly because I shared these first two chapters with my 2nd- grade teacher. After sharing with her, I quickly realized I should be focused on dribbling the ball, not writing about it. So I put my pen down and went on dribbling.
Part 2 Scrabble, Google & me
I'm in 5th grade. I remember being furious losing a game of scrabble because "quov" was "not a word." As my family and I sat around the living room table, warmed and full after Thanksgiving Dinner, I tried to sneak a win... sneak a word... same same. Yet, with a giggle and the swift move of my mother's arm, I soon was staring toe-to-toe with a rounded LED screen that read, "'Quov is not a word.' Google"
Without a hesitation, I replied, "Well, I have only just made it a word, how else did you expect to come to know it?" They laughed. I lost.
Part 3 Writing on Not Just Another Brick in The Wall
I'm nearing the end of high school, and by now, I know I will be playing college soccer. You would think this is a dream come true: I was once a little boy writing down his dream of being a great player and there I was, meeting with the coaches of Yale, Northeastern, Notre Dame, and Santa Clara (which has a bit of a Spanish ring to it, now that I think of it). Despite all of that excitement and attention, and all of the "Division 1! California! Big things ahead!" comments, I really only remember one thing about that period of my life...or one moment, rather. What I remember most was an inability to feel whole. The only solution I found was to physically exhaust myself to the point where I physiologically could not think. But that did not last.
It was a cold, windy Tuesday night in Pittsburgh when I went for a walk like I often do. The next thing I knew, I was standing atop of a parking garage, wobbling over the edge ready to cut the scene short and see what a few stories of gravity could really do. As I stood there, scanning the opportunity to be freed of all intrusive thought, I saw out of the corner of my eye something scripted into the wall: "Please take the stairs down. It will get better." No matter which way I analyze or reflect on this, I conclude that the note was in regard to the elevator but I am nonetheless glad that I took the stairs down.
Part 4 Imago Dei, The Body of Christ & Jack Black
I have just told the head coach of Santa Clara men's soccer that I would be leaving the team and not returning. Even though I had offers to transfer and play at Marshall, (who won the national championship a year or two later), I decided to stay because something about the essence of the Bay Area was particularly interesting. Either that or Santa Clara, CA seemed a bit more promising than Huntington, WV.
I was committed to following my curiosities by then.
I was in an environmental and theology class with a final essay on Lynn White Jr. and the bible. While I had been in Catholic school for many years as a boy, I didn't actually know what scripture was. For context, I was the altar boy who fell asleep on the altar on New Year's Day when he was otherwise meant to be hand-delivering the soon-to-be body of Christ wafers to the priest. It was no biggie because it was not yet the body of Christ. They were the same crunchy, tasteless wafers I would eat as a snack behind the altar before mass started (and during, sometimes). They were just plain old Costco wafers. In fact, if it were not for me putting the wafers into the golden cup ("chalice") and taking them to the priest, there would be no body of Christ.
It is 1 month until the paper is due. I found a passage from Lynn White Junior which read, "What people do depends on what they think about themselves in relation to the things around them." She was writing in the context of the environmental crisis, and in the class, we discussed this in relation to the various interpretations of the meaning of "domain/dominion" in Gen. 1 Verses 26 to 31. For days on end, I tried to draft outlines of what I thought. I had pages and pages on end. Thoughts on this and that, notes for here and there. It was 48 hours before the deadline. I had exactly 0 pages written and about 40 pages of notes. I thought, why not just forget it all and let the words come to me. I'll start over. Who cares. It was now 7 hours to turn in. So, naturally, I ate some morning Lion's Mane Mushrooms and got to work. I put music on and went for a walk to quiet my mind. I meandered back to the library, sat down, and read the first few chapters of the Bible one last time. I decided to assess "Imago Dei." It sounds cool. It looks cool. Must be cool. What does it mean to be made, "in the image of God?"
In the end, I wrote 12 pages in one sitting, with citations, and zero proofreads. I knew it was riddled with typos, errors, and showed a general disregard for academic writing. However, I felt the effort I put in, the thought, concern, and willingness to apply myself showed through in the understanding that was nonetheless communicated.
To spare the time, I will summarize my paper in one quote.
"Do as the magic man do, not as the magic man say." Jack Black, "School of Rock"
The result? I was asked to present it as a speech at some SCU Religious Studies major event. The caveat was that I had to be a religious studies major in order to give it. The professor even said, "You can switch for now and then drop later."
I thanked the professor for the offer and turned him down. He asked why. I said, "I was blind as a boy. God gave me vision and told me I could get the body of Christ wholesale from Costco."
Part 5 Words, Words, Words Hamlet replied
I transferred into the business school. They said it was the most competitive year in 30 years, which is why I felt bad for getting in. In my MIS course, the processes being shown looked a lot like how the brain works. I figured, I can get two birds with one stone... I will major in neuroscience (I was wrong)! Learning the inner workings of the mechanical brain was valuable still, and knowing that technology can restore movement in a stroke victim with the power of thought and signal processing (EEGs, BCI) opened my mind to a world of ideas and interests. But eventually, it became quite odd... sitting in a room with 25 others only 5 feet away, but everyone's head is down, staring at a book, memorizing information about the thing that's trying to memorize information.
I thought to myself, "Surely this is not how one comes to know thyself. I will study the philosophers."
I found myself submitting a final paper in an epistemology class with proofs that referenced shapes representing graphical embeddings of different dimensions of knowledge— in other words, I turned in a philosophy paper that was 1/2 half text and 1/2 pictures of triangles that I made on Canva. My aim was to adapt Hegel's concept of Aufheben (the process of thesis-antithesis- synthesis) in order to argue that in knowing one thing with certainty, one can apply function after function to sprout infinite truths, constrained only by context. While I as awarded a C on the final paper, I now look back and realize that it was a shoddy, yet original, attempt to create a framework for something akin to the concept of a seed in a Markov-Chain process, a concept that largely underlays modern stable diffusion ML models.
The Real Photo from the Wall
And the key takeaway from this is, relative epistemology is the fork between choosing free will and not. You get to choose where you go, not where you are from. 